>> Scott Moss: So now that we know that,
there are gonna be a couple
methods here that you can use.
I'm just gonna walk through them briefly.
So we've talked about create.
The other ones are gonna be fine.
So I'm gonna say student,
I'm gonna auto complete this, nuts.
Student.find and I have autocomplete
set up here on VS Code, but
you can see there
are tons of methods here.
The ones that are gonna be very
important to you are just gonna be find,
which gives you back a list of things.
And you could put whatever properties
you wanna filter in on here.
So if I wanted to find by first name,
I would say find by firstname.
And whatever the first name was.
And then it would try to find it.
And that's gonna give you a list.
Another one would be student.findById
which exactly what it sounds like,
you get an id know find
one student by that id.
So if I had an id here,
I can type in here and
then I would get back just one
student with id if it exists.
Mongo doesn't throw errors
if things don't exist.
It just returns null.
So if it's not there, it was just null.
It's not gonna break.
>> Scott Moss: Other helpful ones that you
will be using will be Student.findById and
then like from there you can do delete,
remove,
update, pretty much all
the CRUD operations.
And they're all pretty much the same.
So if I wanted to do findByIdAndUpdate,
I pass in the id as the first parameter.
So like any id here.
And then I pass what I want to have for
an update.
And then if it finds it,
it'll push this object on to update it.
So these are just like basic crud
methods but Mongoose has like so
many of these methods it's ridiculous.
And they keep changing
them all the time and
you can make your own but
these are just the basic ones.
So I'm just going to just label these.
>> Scott Moss: Make
sure that code is good.
>> Scott Moss: Any
questions on this course?
Yes, Martin.
>> Speaker 2: In the find,
is there a wildcard, like in SQL?
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH] Yes, if you wanna
do a wild card like give me everything,
which you should not,
then you just put an empty object.
That's the wild card, it's like, just give
me everything, just match everything, so
just put an MD object there.
Let's go do the whole collection scan
that's gonna scan your entire database.
Well, I guess,
technically it wouldn't scan it cuz
it's gonna just drop the whole collection.
But yeah, you'll probably just crash
your server if you had a couple hundred
thousand records or something.
So yeah, just be careful with that.
But, yeah, that's how you would do that.
>> Speaker 3: Textual also?
Textual wildcards part of?
>> Scott Moss: That's called
a text index on a search.
We probably won't get to that today
because it's pretty advanced.
But yes, you can set up an index on
text so you can search within text.
Give me something that starts with F.
And that's a text index,
but that's pretty advanced.
>> Speaker 3: Because it's
not common topic [LAUGH].
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, well-
>> Speaker 3: Well, for such honestly.
>> Scott Moss: Right,
there's better tools to search than Mongo.
It searches but not, [LAUGH] no.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: Does MongoDB have default
timestamps like-
>> Scott Moss: You guys just ask literally
some of the best questions ever.
By default, no, but just to show you,
so we can get to this exercise,
you can pass a second option to schema
here, and you can put timestamps.
True, and that'll put a created at and
updated at timestamp for you.
>> Speaker 4: So Mongoose does that,
MongoDB doesn't have that?
>> Scott Moss: Mongoose is doing this for
us, yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Actually,
Mongo probably supports it now,
now that I'm thinking about it.
They might support this as well.
And if so
Mongoose will pass it straight to them.
But both of those libraries
are in such a flux right now,
because there is actually such a huge
major release of Mongo version four,
which released Mongoose version five.
So there's so many deprecated
things happening right now,
it's really hard to tell
which ones doing which now.
And if you look in their GitHub issues,
there's just tons of
what the hell's going on?
So that's what's happening.